[DOC]Jupyterhub docs (#4452)
pachyderm/pachyderm: doc/docs/master/deploy-manage/deploy/deploy-pachyderm-jupyterhub.md

# Deploy Pachyderm with JupyterHub

JupyterHub is an open-source platform that enables you
to spin multiple instances of single-user Jupyter notebook
servers on-demand for each member of your team.
This way, each user gets a personal notebook server.

You can deploy JupyterHub alongside Pachyderm
on the same Kubernetes cluster and use Pachyderm authentication
and [Pachyderm Python client library](https://github.com/pachyderm/python-pachyderm)
with JupyterHub.
By using Pachyderm authentication, you can log in to JupyterHub with
your Pachyderm credentials. In essence, you run your code

> in JupyterHub and use `python-pachyderm` API to create your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in JupyterHub and use the `python-pachyderm` client to create your
```

Author: added

- Docker Desktop for Mac with Kubernetes v1.14

!!! note
    Kubernetes v1.16 is not supported, including Minikube deployments.
    If you already have a local Pachyderm deployed with Kubernetes v1.16,
    you might not be able to deploy JupyterHub on the same Kubernetes
    cluster by using the Jupyter deployment script.

For more information about JupyterHub requirements for Kubernetes,
see [Zero to JupyterHub with Kubernetes](https://zero-to-jupyterhub.readthedocs.io/en/latest/).

### Enable Pachyderm Access Controls (Optional)

You can enable Pachyderm access controls to use Pachyderm credentials
to log in to JupyterHub. However, this
is not required, and if you prefer to use JupyterHub authentication
instead, skip this section.

Pachyderm Access Controls is an enterprise feature. You need to have
an active Enterprise token to enable it.

To enable Pachyderm authentication, follow the steps in
[Configure Access Controls](https://docs.pachyderm.com/latest/enterprise/auth/auth/)

!!! note
    If you decide to enable Pachyderm authentication later, you
    will need to either manually reconfigure or redeploy JupyterHub.

>     Your existing notebooks will be preserved during

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Your existing notebooks will be preserved after
```

Author: added

    the redeploy.

### Install Helm

Helm is a package manager for Kubernetes that controls the JupyterHub
installation. Our deployment script requires Helm 3 or later.

To install Helm on your client machine, follow the steps in the
[Helm Documentation](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/).

## Deploy JupyterHub

After you deploy Pachyderm in one of the supported environments and
install Helm on your client machine, you can use the deployment script
to deploy JupyterHub.

To deploy JupyterHub, complete the following steps:

1. Clone the [jupyterhub-pachyderm](https://github.com/pachyderm/jupyterhub-pachyderm)
repository:

   ```bash
   git clone git@github.com:pachyderm/jupyterhub-pachyderm.git
   ```

1. Change the current directory to `jupyterhub-pachyderm/`:

   ```bash
   cd jupyterhub-pachyderm
   ```

1. Run the `./init.py` script:

   ```bash
   ./init.py
   ```

   **System response:**

>    ```bash

Reviewer 2: should not use bash highlighting here

> # Deploy Pachyderm with JupyterHub

Reviewer 2: I think it'd help for us to diagram out what this looks like. Something like this, but hopefully more polished:

<img width="1008" alt="Screen Shot 2020-01-06 at 2 01 58 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/127386/71841329-0ccaff00-30b7-11ea-964c-6a6b626d9dda.png">

Author: added

JupyterHub is an open-source platform that enables you
to spin multiple instances of single-user Jupyter notebook
servers on-demand for each member of your team.
This way, each user gets a personal notebook server.

You can deploy JupyterHub alongside Pachyderm
on the same Kubernetes cluster and use the Pachyderm authentication
and [Pachyderm Python client library](https://github.com/pachyderm/python-pachyderm)
with JupyterHub.
By using Pachyderm authentication, you can log in to JupyterHub with
your Pachyderm credentials. In essence, you run your code
in JupyterHub and use Pachyderm Python API to create your

> pipelines and version your data in Pachyderm from within

Author: added

JupyterHub UI.

## Deploy Prerequisites

Before you can deploy JupyterHub with Pachyderm, you need to
install Pachyderm on a supported Kubernetes platform and Helm 3
on your client machine.

### Deploy Pachyderm

You need to deploy Pachyderm as described in
[Deploy Pachyderm](https://docs.pachyderm.com/latest/deploy-manage/deploy/)
in of the supported platforms:

> - Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) with Kubernetes v1.13

Author: these requirements a bit more specific than what we generally support Pachyderm on.

- Amazon Elastic Container Service (EKS) with Kubernetes v1.13
- Docker Desktop for Mac with Kubernetes v1.14

!!! note

>     Kubernetes v1.16 is not supported, including Minikube deployments.

Author: @ysimonson probably can provide more details.

    If you already have a local Pachyderm deployed with Kubernetes v1.16,
    you might not be able to deploy JupyterHub on the same Kubernetes

>     cluster by using Pachyderm deployment script.

Author: referring to it as "the Jupyter deployment script" is probably more accurate.

>     cluster by using Pachyderm deployment script.

Reviewer 2: if we're going that route, we should call it the JupyterHub deployment script (JupyterHub is a superset of Jupyter)

### Enable Pachyderm Access Controls (Optional)

You can enable Pachyderm access controls to use Pachyderm credentials
to log in to JupyterHub. However, this
is not required, and if you prefer to use JupyterHub authentication
instead, skip this section.

Pachyderm Access Controls is an enterprise feature. You need to have
an active Enterprise token to enable it.

To enable Pachyderm authentication, follow the steps in
[Configure Access Controls](https://docs.pachyderm.com/latest/enterprise/auth/auth/)

!!! note
    If you decide to enable Pachyderm authentication later, you
    will need to either manually reconfigure or redeploy JupyterHub.

### Install Helm

Helm is a package manager for Kubernetes that controls the JupyterHub
installation.

To install Helm on your client machine, follow the steps in the
[Helm Documentation](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/).

## Deploy JupyterHub

After you deploy Pachyderm in one of the supported environments and
install Helm on your client machine, you can use the deployment script
to deploy JupyterHub.

To deploy JupyterHub, complete the following steps:

> 1. Clone the [jypeterhub-pachyderm](https://github.com/pachyderm/jupyterhub-pachyderm)

Author: added

   ```

1. Run the `./init.py` script:

   ```bash
   ./init.py
   ```

   **System response:**

   ```bash
   ===> checking dependencies are installed
   ...
   ===> installing jupyterhub
   Release "jhub" does not exist. Installing it now.
   NAME: jhub
   LAST DEPLOYED: Wed Dec 18 13:09:26 2019
   NAMESPACE: default
   STATUS: deployed
   REVISION: 1
   TEST SUITE: None
   NOTES:
   Thank you for installing JupyterHub!
   ...
   ===> notes
   - Since Pachyderm auth doesn't appear to be enabled, JupyterHub will expect the following global password for users: XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
   ```

   The JupyterHub is now deployed on your Kubernetes cluster.

## Log in to JupyterHub

After you deploy JupyterHub, you can access the JupyterHub UI
in a web browser through the Pachyderm cluster hostname on port
`80`.

If you have enabled Pachyderm access controls, use your Pachyderm
token to log in. Otherwise, use the global password
that was printed out when you ran the `./init.py` script with any
username.

## Using `python-pachyderm`

After you log in, you can use the [Python Pachyderm](https://pachyderm.github.io/python-pachyderm/python_pachyderm.m.html#header-functions)

> client API to manage Pachyderm directly in Jupyter notebooks.

Author: added

The following lines initialize the Python Pachyderm client in JupyterHub:

```bash
import python_pachyderm
client = python_pachyderm.Client.new_in_cluster()
```

!!! note
    This syntax is different from the one you run directly

>     from your terminal.

Reviewer 2: 1) nit: the syntax is the same, but the function call is different.
2) I could see this statement confusing some users, since you can run a terminal in JupyterHub. Instead, I think it should say it's different from the function you'd call locally.

> Then, you can API request to create Pachyderm repositories, pipelines,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, you can use API requests to create Pachyderm repositories, pipelines,
```

Author: added

steps:

1. In the JupyterHub UI, create a new notebook by clicking **New**
and selecting **Python 3**.
1. In the dialog field, type:

   ```bash
   import python_pachyderm
   client = python_pachyderm.Client.new_in_cluster()
   client.create_repo('test')
   client.list_repo()
   ```

1. Click **Run**.

   **System Response:**

   ```bash
   [repo {
   name: "test"
   }
   created {
     seconds: 1576869000
     nanos: 886123695
   }
   auth_info {
     access_level: OWNER
   }
   ]
   ```

1. Delete the repository:

   ```bash
   import python_pachyderm
   client = python_pachyderm.Client.new_in_cluster()
   client.delete_repo('test')
   client.list_repo()
   ```

   **System Response:**

   ```bash
   []
   ```

!!! note "See also:"
    [Image Detection on JupyterHub Example](https://github.com/pachyderm/jupyterhub-pachyderm/blob/master/doc/opencv.md)

## Update Your Pipeline

When you need to update your pipeline,
you can do so directly in the JupyterHub UI by
modifying the corresponding notebook and
reruning it again.

If you need to update your code, you can do it in the
JupyterHub UI as well. The main advantage of
using Python Pachyderm Python client is that you

> do need to rebuild your pipeline image to apply

Reviewer: do or don't? need to rebuild pipeline images?

Reviewer: this is a potentially fancy feature. We need to describe it in more detail. Do you need to use reprocess? if so, how? Is a new image being built behind the scenes? what's actually going on here and how much "smartness" is there?

These details can be covered in TOH with Yusuf and then we can document them more

Author: yes, "do not" of course. Here is more details: https://pachyderm.github.io/python-pachyderm/python_pachyderm.m.html

Reviewer 2: @JoeyZwicker this is a utility function exposed by python-pachyderm. I'm not sure how much detail we should go into here. On the one hand, it seems useful for JupyterHub users because they can deploy code much more quickly to pachyderm, and semantically it's quite different from the typical `pachctl create pipeline`. On the other hand, there's a good amount of detail to it, as you can see in the library docs.

To answer your questions:
1) Similar to `pachctl create pipeline`, you can choose to reprocess or not.
2) It doesn't built an image behind the scenes. Instead it creates a PFS repo with the python source code, and a pipeline (with a standard python image) for downloading/building the dependencies. The new pipeline then depends on these repos, as well as the input repo(s) specified by the user.
